you're live with BBC News I'm reini Vian
Alin let's go back to developments in
the Israel Gaza war and Israel's bombing
of the Gaza Strip has continued unabated
in the lead up to a visit on Thursday by
America's national security advisor Jake
Sullivan well this was the scene in the
town of Rafa this morning the Hamas Ron
Health Ministry in Gaza says Israel's
early morning air strikes have killed at
least 19 people
us officials say Mr Sullivan's expected
to call for greater Precision in future
Israeli strikes on Hamas there's been
growing International criticism of
Israel Over the number of Civilian
casualties and at the UN General
Assembly earlier in the week there was
an overwhelming vote in favor of a
ceasefire while joining me to discuss
all of this a little further is Melanie
Ward she's the CEO of Medical Aid for
Palestinians thank you for joining us
here on BBC News Melanie you have have
contacts with people on the ground what
are you hearing about the humanitarian
needs at the
moment what I'm hearing from my staff on
the ground is that every day which
passes makes it more and more difficult
to sustain human life in Gaza that's
because of the systematic denial of food
water medicine and fuel to the civilian
population in in Gaza including to the
hospitals and it's because of Israel's
in indiscriminate bombing um which has
been killing so many civilians soon we
will approach the marker where 10,000
children will have been killed by the
bombardments from the air the horrific
truth is that Aid distribution has
largely stopped including in in the
south of Gaza with some limited
exceptions we just can't get in the
number of Aid trucks that are needed uh
myself Medical Aid for Palestinians we
have seven trucks that have been waiting
for days now to get in just haven't been
able to even when they do get in it's so
dangerous because of the ongoing bombing
staff are unable to get them to people
in need and this morning we're
particularly concerned about the
patients in Kamal adwan Hospital in the
north of Gaza in B Leia which two days
ago was surrounded by Israeli troops
where there were 65 patients including
12 children and we're hearing this
morning that hospital staff there are
unable even to prepare milk formula for
the babies there some of whom's two of
their mothers were shot dead by the
Israelis a couple of days ago so the
situation couldn't be more Grim we're
running out of words to use to describe
what is happening to civilians in Gaza I
wanted to ask you about the situation in
hospitals before you mentioned it
actually Melanie because I was talking
to a representative from UNICEF
yesterday who talked about how he's
visited hospitals that don't even have
clean water um by your estimations how
many hospitals in Gaza are able to
function even partially now there were
fewer than onethird of hospitals in Gaza
that are functioning now so that's fewer
than 12 even Primary Health Care Centers
have been taken out of action it's
completely impossible to save lives
anymore ambulances are not functioning
the civil defense which usually digs
people out of the rubble is unable to do
its job we just can't get supplies into
the hospitals that are needed so really
there are a very tiny number in the
south of Gaza that are still providing
emergency room services and as I said
more and more of the hospitals across
Gaza have been systematically dismantled
by the military action that's that's
taking place you know hospitals are
supposed to be a Haven under
international law they're supposed to be
protected and what we're seeing in this
horrific conflict is that they have
become battlefields themselves and for
the patients who are there it's
absolutely terrifying it's also
completely
unacceptable and we're unable to sustain
human life in in this situation you know
as I said we've got trucks of medical
supplies waiting to get it into Gaza now
when they do get in we can't even get
them to all of the hospitals in need
because the Israelis won't let aid
supplies across the front line there was
a convoy a couple of days ago that ran
to the north to try to take medical
supplies to some of the hospitals even
it came under Fire And there are
desperate people children women people
in intensive care who need to be kept
alive and we can't do that and from
Kamal Adan Hospital were also hearing
this morning that some of the patients
have started to die because medical
staff rounded up and detained by the
Israeli military and Melanie just
briefly before we let you go um is any
uh significant Aid Crossing uh from uh
the Rafa Crossing into Gaza from Egypt
tell me amounts of Aid are getting in
yesterday 100 trucks got in but to give
comparison on a normal day in Gaza
before this even started 500 trucks of
supplies were needed every day so it's a
drop in the ocean compared to what's
needed but the main point is that this
is not an accident there are hundreds of
trucks queued on the other side of the
Border waiting to get in and the Israeli
authorities won't allow them in so there
was Aid there waiting to reach the
people who are in desperate need who
were sleeping on the streets now in Rafa
who have fled including my own staff
from place to place to place because
Israel keeps telling everyone to move
somewhere else and then that place is
attacked so there are aid supplies
waiting to get to people but we are
unallowed to reach them at the moment
okay Melanie Ward the CEO of Medical Aid
for Palestinians thank you very much for
bringing us up to date on the situation
particularly in hospitals in
Gaza there's of course more on that
story on the BBC News website where we
continue to run a live page with all of
the latest developments